ippconstraints
==============

C++ code for generating sets of constraints characterizing many kinds of imprecise probabilities


This repository contains two directories, one with the C++ code to generate constraints sets, the other with files resulting from using the code with many different parameters, and further files derived from these.


Code
----

**Usage** Compilation gives the 'constraints' program, which calculates constraints for lower probabilities for a given size of the possibility space and for given properties.
Run the program without arguments to get more information.

**Compilation** In the directory containing this file and the source code, enter the following on the command line:

    g++ -O3 -o constraints -lgsl -lgslcblas constraints.cpp constraints-classes.cpp constraints-text.cpp basic-constraints.cpp k-monotonicity-constraints.cpp asl-constraints.cpp coherence-constraints.cpp necessity-constraints.cpp print-constraints.cpp

For this command to work, you need to have the GNU compiler collection (gcc), the GNU Scientific Library (gsl) and a BLAS library installed.
The compiler can be readily changed (the code is ANSI C++/C), but if you want to change the scientific library (which is not
available for non-cygwin Windows-systems), some code changes have to be made in 'coherence-constraints.cpp' and 'asl-constraints.cpp'.

**Licensing** Because I use the GPL'ed gsl library, this code is also GPL'ed.
See https://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/ for more information.


Results
-------

**Explanation** This package containts files with:
  - constraints for lower probabilities (extension .ine), generated by the 'constraints' program;
  - the above, but with redundant constraints removed (extension -nr.ine), generated from the above by the 'redund' program;
  - extreme lower probabilities (extension .ext), generated from the above (or above above) with the 'lcdd_gmp' program from the cdd bundle.
  - adjacency lists (extension .adj), generated from the above with the 'adjacency_gmp' program from the cdd bundle.

The first part of the filename indicated the cardinality of the possibility space, the second part the properties, the third part is the extension.

I suggest looking into the 2-lpo* or 2-lpow* files (first .ine, then -nr.ine, the *.ext) to understand the format of the files.
They describe the calculation of the additive (l), positive (p), one-normed (o) (and permutation invariant (w)) lower probabilities.

**Notes**
  1. Missing *.ext files indicate that these cases are very computationally intensive to calculate (cdd program for vertex enumeration), which is why they were not included.
  2. Because these results were obtaining using an older version of the 'constraints' program, the one- (o) and zero-normed (z) and positivity (p) properties are not mentioned in the .ine files, although the corresponding constraints are included if these letters are in the file name.
  3. Only a few .adj files are given, because most are not really interesting (at first sight?).

**Licensing** These files contain the music of the polytopes, so no license can be given or is needed for their use.
